Welcome to Cinema Summary,
ladies and gentlemen
genetic engineering is a field of science and technology
that could be so very beneficial for all mankind and
even animals but what happens when it
all goes terribly wrong?
This is SPLICE (2009)
So the movie starts off with
us witnessing a birth from the
first-person perspective and we meet our
protagonists Clive Nicoli
and Elsa Kast played by Adrian Brody and
Sarah Polley respectively doctors who
observe the fruits of their labor: Fred and
Ginger; two genetically engineered life
forms who seem to get along with each
other much to the relief of their team
these two doctors are superstars in the
field of genetic engineering and they
work for a company called it Newstead
that conducts experimentation in the
fields of genetics splicing in DNA from
different species into a new life form
of which Melvin and Ginger are the
sum achievement of and that hopefully
are going to be used to produce
medicinal proteins for life stock with a
more advanced splicing technique used
for Fred; Clive and Elsa predict that
they can use it on humans
it's exciting since if applied a lot of
incurable conditions like Alzheimer's and
Parkinson's for example could be cured
though they might have to hold their
horses on human experimentation since
the board of directors want to be able
to replicate and eventually sell the
proteins produced by Ginger and Fred
without the use of genetic splicing labs
which are going to be shut down and
retooled since human experimentation
will lead to scrutiny and bad publicity
and bad publicity for the company it's a
risk that the company can't take so the
two continue in secret on their human
DNA splicing experiments but they
undergo failure after failure until they
do it. At their apartment Elsa and Clive
discuss moving places and even more
about having children before they're
interrupted by an alert they head down
to the embryo to find it ready to come
out and although a lot of things go
wrong during this birthing sequence
the human hybrid is born
a birth that sits heavy for the both of
them with Clive considering that they
destroy it though Elsa insists that they
keep it but Clive won't be dissuaded but
when they go to it they find that it's
dead and Clive goes out of the OR
as Elsa stays to look at their hybrid
only to discover that it's empty
and is actually this weird chicken rat
looking thing that "imprints" on Elsa
they knock it out and begin to study it
closely, finding out that it's able to
excrete venom even though there was no
predatory DNA although it's the DNA
that's concerning since beyond random
junk DNA and overall weirdness the
hybrid is undergoing accelerated aging
due to its genes and later that night
Clive meets his Barlow a higher-up a
Newstead who tells him straight out that
everything is leaning on Phase 2
succeeding if they can't sell the
medicinal proteins from the transgenics,
Ginger and Fred, Newstead is going under
and it's going to be on Clive and Else's
heads if such a thing occurs a month
passes and the hybrid child has grown
immensely exhibiting a human-like
intelligence and resembling a toddler of
sorts. A toddler that Elsa dotes on and
teaches much to Elsa's delight and
Clive's worry since Elsa has been
getting a little too into raising this
child: letting the 'child' out of its
containment area and taking the cover
off the hybrid stinger and even going so
far as to name it! Calling it "Dren"
the word nerd spelled backwards
It's this whimsical treatment of Dren that leads
to an argument since this wing of the
lab is going to be renovated so how are
they going to hide their crime against nature?
That's when Gavin, Clive's brother
and lab associate, sneaks into the room
to eavesdrop and find out more about the
mysterious experiment that Clive and
Elsa have been hiding and runs into Dren
so now they got a deal with it
their plan is genius, not really of
course, but their plan is genius so to
speak: sneak Dren out in a cardboard box
keep her hidden within storage area
which isn't great since Dredd has a
really high fever
so they put on a cold water bath which
leads to Elsa freaking out and with
little option and a little righteous
indignation
Clive holds Dren under the water and
they find out that she has amphibious
lungs. That night Elsa dotes and babies
Dren giving the hybrid a Barbie doll
that Elsa explains that she had to hide
from a mother when she was younger a
small tidbit of information that is
going to explain Elsa psychology
and her actions but there's still more
to know though something to note is that Dren is
significantly older now looking more
human with an actual nose and as Elsa
and Clive get freaky on a couch, Dren
watches on with piqued curiosity
The next day Clive and Elsa present Ginger
and Fred to the public but things go
horribly wrong as the two transgenics
fight each other to the death knocking
their container over and spilling blood
quite literally in the aftermath of the
presentation Clive and Elsa explained that
Ginger transformed into a male of her
species and they don't know how that
happened with the renovation soon to be
done, Dren is moved from the Newstead
storage area to a farm that Alice's
mother once owned, a mother who Elsa
described as crazy, let's hope that
doesn't run in the family though when
they get to the farm Dren runs off after
being taken outta the van to find some food
and after setting up Dren's room in the
barn the couple head into Elsa's old house
and we get a very clear look into Elsa's
pass Exhibit A: her old bedroom left just
the way she had it before she
left clear signs of abuse
meanwhile Dren has been getting
restless with only a cat for company
with her parents gone for work
and begins her rebellious phase which
Elsa does not take well while Clive is
surprisingly receptive being nicer than
his crankier wife and so to keep Dren
company Elsa stays home and
gives Dren the things
Elsa's mother wouldn't let her have like
makeup and jewelry and when Elsa checks
the makeup table she finds the portraits
of Clive but none of her which gets Dren
skittish running away to pet a cat which
Elsa takes away snidely telling Dren you
can't always get what you want that's a
part of growing up when Clive returns he
finds Dren heartbroken and tries to
comfort her with a little music and dance
which leads to Clive feeling things he
shouldn't have
since he has Elsa and then Clive has a
sudden and horrid realization and
confronts his wife about her decision to
use her DNA in the experiment
calling her out on her BS excuse to do the
experiment out of some noble pursuit of
science instead of what it actually is
after Clive leaves Elsa gives a now
older and taller Dren a gift that cat
from earlier which Dren promptly
punctures fatally with her stinger
shocked Elsa smacks Dren which leads to
her pouncing on to Elsa to steal the
barn door keys to unlock the door and
escape only to get knocked out and wake
up strapped to an operating table where
Elsa has gone back to being a scientist
and separating herself from the
experiment referring to Dren by her
designation: H-50 and begins
dehumanizing the hybrid removing Dren's
clothes, jewelry, and makeup in due to
Dren's violent behavior Elsa removes
the hybrid's stinger when Clive arrives
Elsa leaves taking with her the cutoff
stinger back to the Newstead lab to find
the proteins since by design Dren has
everything that Fred and Ginger had
which leads to Elsa synthesizing the
protein Newstead's been looking for the
next day Clive goes to the barn to find
Elsa but is ambushed by Dren who comes
on to him very aggressively and then
things get freaky because not only are
they doing it. Not only does Dren's stinger grow back but
Elsa finds them! Coitus interruptus
ensues and Elsa drives off back to their
old apartment and there they have an
argument which gets to the crux of the
issues: Elsa only wanted to create a
child instead of simply having a child
because deep inside she never wanted to
lose control of said child a side effect
of her abusive childhood, plus with the whole
creating life and raising it in humanely
and treating it poorly they've crossed a
lot of lines supposedly in the name of
science and there's no going back but
maybe they can put an end to all of this
so they go back to the barn to find Dren
is dying and so they bury her, burn her
things and as Elsa is moving her
things she finds drawings of herself and
that's when company arrives Gavin and
Barlow are here to see H-50 and that's
when Dren comes back to life now as
assuming a more masculine form and picks
off the men on the farm: First Barlow
then Gavin and finally Clive before Dren
chases after Elsa and things get freaky
and that's when Clive sneaks up and
Spears Dren with a a branch only for
himself gets stabbed by Dren leading
to Elsa taking Dren out with a rock in
the aftermath of all of this Elsa
continues working for Newstead who has
given the green light to continue her
research into proteins that were found
and Dren's body with Elsa now pregnant
so that was a pretty
straightforward movie wasn't it?
a married couple of scientists
go ahead and play God in doing so
creating a child that grows up, gets
impregnated by the male part of the
couple before impregnating the female
part of me couple after turning into a male.
Right. Right? So at first when I
watched this movie I was pretty sure that
it was all very straightforward
Dren had to have been the one to impregnate Elsa
that's why she's pregnant at the end of
the movie and why her boss is bending
over backwards for her they want
whatever genetic goodness is inside the
chimera human hybrid whose father is or
was the daughter of Elsa technically
speaking or something like that but
remember that earlier in the film Clive
and Elsa get freaky and although I
didn't say it the characters explicitly
mentioned that they are not using
protection before they get down to it
this along with the fact that the movie
occurs over a period of at least a month
or two implies that there's a
possibility that Elsa is pregnant with
Clive's child but with everything that's
messed up in the film: the ethics, the
relationships, the experiment itself plus
with the dialogue at the end of the movie
it is heavily implied that Elsa is
carrying Dren's baby for the sake of a
big paycheck and a career how exactly a
fertilized egg has its DNA overridden
with Dren's DNA, I'm not too sure
but I assume that it's a result of a mutation
caused by the junk DNA that's inside
Dren as noted earlier in the film by
Clive as being something he's never seen
before which is speculated to allow Dren
the ability to have body parts that she
shouldn't have like the stinger though I'm
not a biologist so take my soft serve
science thoughts with a grain of salt
and let me know what you think was
Elsa's baby Dren's or Clive's? Would you
sign up to sell your chimera baby for
some fat stacks of cash? And did you hear
about that Chinese scientist who was
working on designer babies who just
disappeared one day and no one's seen
him since? Tell me what you know and what you
think in the comments down below and
with that being said thank you so much
for watching ladies and gentlemen if you
enjoy the video leave a like down below
and subscribe to get updated on my
latest uploads until next time may this
new year bring in all kinds of unholy
crimes against nature